nikto -h duocortex.in
nikto -h google.com

nikto -h duocortex.com -ssl
nikto -h google.com -port 8083 
nikto -h example.com -useproxy proxy.ip.address.here
nikto -h http://example.com -useproxy http://192.168.1.5:8080
nikto -h example.com -id username:password
nikto -h http://example.com -id admin:admin123
nikto -h example.com -IgnoreCode 301
nikto -h example.com -nocache

nikto -h http://example.com -useproxy http://127.0.0.1:8080 -IgnoreCode 301 -nocache



Aim: To study about Vulnerability scanning of Web server using Nikto tool in KALI LINUX.

Learning Objective: To understand Vulnerability scanning of Web server using Nikto in
KALI LINUX.
Theory:
What is Nikto?
Nikto, also known as Nikto2, is an open source (GPL) and free-to-use web server scanner which
performs vulnerability scanning against web servers for multiple items including dangerous files
and programs, and checks for outdated versions of web server software. It also checks for server
configuration errors and any possible vulnerabilities they might have introduced.
The  Nikto vulnerability scanner project  is a fast-moving effort, frequently updated with the latest
known vulnerabilities. This allows you to scan your web servers with confidence as you search
for any possible issues.
Main features:
 Nikto is free to use, open source and frequently updated
 Can be used to scan any web server (Apache, Nginx, Lighttpd, Litespeed, etc.)
 Scans against 6,700+ known vulnerabilities and version checks for 1,250+ web servers
(and growing)
 Scans for configuration-related issues such as open index directories
 SSL certificate scanning
 Ability to scan multiple ports on a server with multiple web servers running
 Ability to scan through a proxy and with http authentication
 Ability to specify maximum scan time, exclude certain types of scans and unusual report
headers seen as well
Nikto commands to perform vulnerability scanning
1. Running a basic website scan

nikto -h example.com

SCREEN SHOT:

2. Running a scan on a website with SSL
Nikto also has an SSL scanner mode, for SSL certificates installed on a website. With this you
can get SSL cipher and issuer information.
To run a website SSL scan run:
nikto -h example.com –ssl
SCREEN SHOT:

3. Scanning specific ports with Nikto
On certain deployments, web servers are run on non-standard ports like 8081 or 8080, or
multiple web servers are run on the same host on different network ports. It&#39;s therefore vital to
have the ability to scan specific ports as well as the main 80 and 443 ports.
This can be achieved by running the command:
nikto -h example.com -port 8083
SCREEN SHOT:

4. Scanning through a network proxy
Certain websites may only be available through a network proxy or specific IP, and this feature
allows Nikto to scan the website through that proxy address as well:

nikto -h example.com -useproxy proxy.ip.address.here
SCREEN SHOT:

5. Scanning websites which require authentication
Nikto also includes the ability to scan websites which are protected by http authentication:
nikto -h example.com -id username:password
SCREEN SHOT:

6. Ignore certain HTTP codes
When running a web server scan with Nikto, it&#39;s important to ignore certain HTTP codes such as
301 redirects, to prevent the scan from scanning unnecessary objects. In such a scenario we can
use the -IgnoreCode flag:
nikto -h example.com -IgnoreCode 301
SCREEN SHOT:

7. Disable response cache
Modern web servers often cache websites to save on CPU performance as well as to serve
websites more quickly. This is why it&#39;s possible to get a &quot;cached&quot; version of the website when
trying a scan.
This cached website may not have all the vulnerabilities present, or it may still have
vulnerabilities present which were cached, so it&#39;s important to flush the cache as well as use the -
nocache flag to scan a non-cached version of the website.

nikto -h example.com -nocache