Aim: To study about OWASP ZAP tool in KALI LINUX.
What is OWASP ZAP?
Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP) is a free, open-source penetration testing tool being maintained under the
umbrella of The Software Security Project (SSP). ZAP is designed specifically for testing web
applications and is both flexible and extensible.
At its core, ZAP is what is known as a “man-in-the-middle proxy.” It stands between the tester’s browser
and the web application so that it can intercept and inspect messages sent between browser and web
application, modify the contents if needed, and then forward those packets on to the destination. It can be
used as a stand-alone application, and as a daemon process.
If there is another network proxy already in use, as in many corporate environments, ZAP can be
configured to connect to that proxy.ZAP provides functionality for a range of skill levels – from developers, to testers new to security
testing, to security testing specialists. ZAP has versions for each major OS and Docker, so you are not
tied to a single OS. Additional functionality is freely available from a variety of add-ons in the ZAP
Marketplace, accessible from within the ZAP client.
Because ZAP is open-source, the source code can be examined to see exactly how the functionality is
implemented. Anyone can volunteer to work on ZAP, fix bugs, add features, create pull requests to pull
fixes into the project, and author add-ons to support specialized situations.
Install and Configure ZAP
Go to following website:
https://www.zaproxy.org/download/

Download LINUX Installer
Then, go to Downloads in kali with the help of following commands.
~ Cd Download/
Screen Shot
~ ls
Screen Shot
~chmod +x ZAP_2_14_0_unix.sh
~ls
Screen Shot
~sudo su
~ ./ZAP_2_14_0_unix.sh
ZAP will be successfully installed in the KALI LINUX.


ZAP Desktop UI
The ZAP Desktop UI is composed of the following elements:
1. Menu Bar – Provides access to many of the automated and manual tools.
2. Toolbar – Includes buttons which provide easy access to most commonly used features.
3. Tree Window – Displays the Sites tree and the Scripts tree.
4. Workspace Window – Displays requests, responses, and scripts and allows you to edit them.
5. Information Window – Displays details of the automated and manual tools.
6. Footer – Displays a summary of the alerts found and the status of the main automated tools.
Add Screen Shot of ZAP Desktop UI

Running an Automated Scan
1. Start ZAP and click the Quick Start tab of the Workspace Window.
2. Click the large Automated Scan button.
3. In the URL to attack text box, enter the full URL of the web application you want to attack.
4. Click the Attack

Screen Shot
ZAP will proceed to crawl the web application with its spider and passively scan each page it finds. Then
ZAP will use the active scanner to attack all of the discovered pages, functionality, and parameters.
View Alerts and Alert Details
The left-hand side of the Footer contains a count of the Alerts found during your test, broken out into risk
categories. These risk categories are:

To view the alerts created during your test:
1. Click the Alerts tab in the Information Window.
2. Click each alert displayed in that window to display the URL and the vulnerability detected in
the right side of the Information Window.

3. In the Workspace Windows, click the Response tab to see the contents of the header and body of
the response. The part of the response that generated the alert will be highlighted.

Screen Shot
Manual Exploration
1. Start ZAP and click the Quick Start tab of the Workspace Window.
2. Click the large Manual Explore button.
3. In the URL to explore text box, enter the full URL of the web application you want to explore.
4. Select the browser you would like to use 5. Click the Launch Browser